% BOOKLETIMPOSER(1) bookletimposer user manual
% Kjö Hansi Glaz <kjo@a4nancy.net.eu.org>
% 2012


NAME
====

**bookletimposer** - An utility to reorganize PDF pages


SYNOPSIS
========

**bookletimposer** [*options*] [*input-file*]

**bookletimposer** **-a** [*options*] *input-file*


DESCRIPTION
===========

bookletimposer is an utility to achieve some basic imposition on PDF
documents, especially designed to work on booklets. 

It allows:

- to transform linear documents to booklets;
- to reduce a document to put many on one sheet (for tracts for example);
- to transform booklets to linear documents.

It is a free software released under the GNU General Public License, either
version 3 or (at your option) any later version.


OPTIONS
=======

`--version`
-----------

show program's version number and exit.


`-h`, `--help`
--------------

show an help message and exit.


`-o` *OUTFILE*, `--output=`*OUTFILE*
------------------------------------

set output PDF file to *OUTFILE*.


`-a`, `--no-gui`
----------------

automatic converstion (don't show the user interface).
In that mode, the input file must be defined.


`-i`, `--gui`
-------------

show the user interface (default).


`-b`, `--booklet`
-----------------

produce a booklet out of a linear document (default).


`-l`, `--linearize`
-------------------

produce a linear document out of a booklet.


`-n`, `--no-reorganisation`
---------------------------

don't reorganize (will only scale and assemble pages).


`-c`, `--copy-pages`
--------------------

copy the same group of input pages on one output page.

`-p` *PAGES_PER_SHEET*, `--pages-per-sheet=`*PAGES_PER_SHEET*
-------------------------------------------------------------

number of pages per sheet, in the format HORIZONTALxVERTICAL, e.g. 2x1.


`-f` *OUTPUT_FORMAT*, `--format=`*OUTPUT_FORMAT*
------------------------------------------------

output page format, e.g. A4 or A3R.


`-k`, `--keep`
--------------

do not overwrite output file if it exists.


EXAMPLES
========

bookletimposer
--------------

Displays the GTK+ user interface.


bookletimposer --no-gui --booklet --pages-per-sheet=2x1 --output=out.pdf in.pdf
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Converts in.pdf into a booklet with two pages per sheet an saves the 
result as out.pdf.


bookletimposer --no-gui --linearise --pages-per-sheet=2x1 in.pdf
----------------------------------------------------------------

Converts the two-pages-per-sheet booklet in.pdf into a page-by-page
PDF. As the output file name is not defined, it will default to in-conv.pdf.


SEE ALSO
========

pdfshuffler(1)

BookletImposer source code and documentation can be found on the web at
<https://kjo.herbesfolles.org/bookletimposer/>

KNOWN ISSUES
============

BookletImposer is under development, which means that for the moment, some
things work, some others do not... Thanks to report bugs to
<kjo@a4nancy.net.eu.org> if you find some!
